---
layout: post
title: "Content vs. Presentation: Just How Deep Are The Social Networks? by Eric DeLabar"
metadesc: 
class: post disclaimer
changefreq: never
priority: 0.4
category: outdated
---
<h1>Content vs. Presentation: Just How Deep Are The Social Networks?</h1>
<p>Without any <abbr title="cascading style sheets"><span class="caps">CSS</span></abbr> or fancy design, this site is pretty ugly.  As the current ugly kid on the block I cry myself to sleep every night and my wife consoles me by saying that it's what's on inside that counts.  <q>Google likes your content, just ignore those mean kids, one day your <abbr title="cascading style sheets"><span class="caps">CSS</span></abbr> will change and then they'll appreciate you for who you are,</q> she says.  I sort-of believe her and resolve to <a href="/2008/04/no-deadlines-no-work-qed.html">finish my design by the end of the month</a>, but the same thing will just happen tomorrow.  The thing is, I just can't help but ask myself, <q>self, does your content suck or is social media just that shallow?</q></p>
<p>Here's the thing, I've submitted three of my articles to <a href="http://www.digg.com/">Digg</a>, <a href="/2008/04/top-10-ways-to-waste-your-seed-money.html">one that I thought was pretty funny</a>, <a href="/2008/04/javascript-getelementbyid-performance.html">one that was pretty technical</a>, and <a href="/2008/04/online-identity-and-the-social-graph.html">one that was just on a whim to see what it would do</a>.  I followed the rules and didn't blindly submit every post, I think I wrote a decent description for each, and my analytics account says I had some people click through.  So, I managed to generate some interest, but, once they were there, they spent an average of ten seconds and then bounced immediately!  I know for a fact that the posts took longer than 10 seconds to read, so what&nbsp;happened?</p>
<p>Speed shouldn't be a factor, I've benchmarked the site, since there's no <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets"><abbr title="cascading style sheets"><span class="caps">CSS</span></abbr></a> or <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript">JavaScript</a> to download and process, and very few images, it's really just a matter of downloading the content.  I even have <a href="http://mnm.uib.es/gallir/wp-cache-2/">wp-cache</a> installed and enabled so this site should be as fast as static <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language"><span class="caps">HTML</span></abbr>.  Does that mean people are just so disgusted by my 1995 design sensibility that they can't even stand to read an article they were interested enough in to click on?  Would I be better to enable the <a href="http://themes.wordpress.net/columns/2-columns/163/wordpress-default-15/">default Wordpress theme</a>?  Is it a readability thing?  I know I'm not using 80-character lines, but I don't think it's <strong>that hard</strong> to read.  Or maybe my content just sucks and I should go back to being a mindless programming&nbsp;drone.</p>
<p>Social media I implore you, answer my question.  Are you too shallow to vote for posts on this site because they're&nbsp;ugly?</p>